documentation/C++style.md, before:

<!--
Copyright (c) 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION.  All rights reserved.
-->

## In brief:
* Use *clang-format* on all C++ source and header files before
  every merge to master.  All code layout should be determined
  by means of clang-format.
* Where LLVM's C++ style guide is clear on usage, follow it.
* Otherwise, where a clear precedent exists in the project, follow it.
* Otherwise, where a good public C++ style guide is relevant and clear,
  follow it.  [Google's](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html)
  is pretty good and comes with lots of justifications for its rules.
## In particular:
### Files
1. File names should use dashes, not underscores.  C++ sources have the
extension ".cc", not ".C" or ".cpp" or ".cxx".  Don't create needless
source directory hierarchies.
1. Header files should be idempotent.  Use the usual technique:
```
#ifndef FORTRAN_header_H_
#define FORTRAN_header_H_
// code
#endif  // FORTRAN_header_H_
```
1. `#include` every header defining an entity that your project header or source
file actually uses directly.  (Exception: when foo.cc starts, as it should,
with `#include "foo.h"`, and foo.h includes bar.h in order to define the
interface to the module foo, you don't have to redundantly `#include "bar.h"`
in foo.cc.)
1. In the source file "foo.cc", put its corresponding `#include "foo.h"`
first in the sequence of inclusions.
Then `#include` other project headers in alphabetic order; then C++ standard
headers, also alphabetically; then C and system headers.
1. Don't use `#include <iostream>`.  If you need it for temporary debugging,
remove the inclusion before committing.
### Naming
1. C++ names that correspond to STL names should look like those STL names
(e.g., `clear()` and `size()` member functions in a class that implements
a container).
1. Non-public data members should be named with leading miniscule (lower-case)
letters, internal camelCase capitalization, and a trailing underscore,
e.g. `DoubleEntryBookkeepingSystem myLedger_;`.  POD structures with
only public data members shouldn't use trailing underscores, since they
don't have class functions in which data members need to be distinguishable.
1. Accessor member functions are named with the non-public data member's name,
less the trailing underscore.  Mutator member functions are named `set_...`
and should return `*this`.  Don't define accessors or mutators needlessly.
1. Other class functions should be named with leading capital letters,
CamelCase, and no underscores, and, like all functions, should be based
on imperative verbs, e.g. `HaltAndCatchFire()`.
1. It is fine to use short names for local variables with limited scopes,
especially when you can declare them directly in a `for()`/`while()`/`if()`
condition.  Otherwise, prefer complete English words to abbreviations
when creating names.
### Commentary
1. Use `//` for all comments except for short `/*notes*/` within expressions.
1. When `//` follows code on a line, precede it with two spaces.
1. Comments should matter.  Assume that the reader knows current C++ at least as
well as you do and avoid distracting her by calling out usage of new
features in comments.
### Layout
Always run `clang-format` before committing code.  Other developers should
be able to run `git pull`, then `clang-format`, and see only their own
changes.

Here's what you can expect to see `clang-format` do:
1. Indent with two spaces.
1. Don't indent public:, protected:, and private:
accessibility labels.
1. Never use more than 80 characters per source line.
1. Don't use tabs.
1. Don't indent the bodies of namespaces, even when nested.
1. Function result types go on the same line as the function and argument
names.

Don't try to make columns of variable names or comments
align vertically -- they are maintenance problems.

Always wrap the bodies of `if()`, `else`, `while()`, `for()`, `do`, &c.
with braces, even when the body is a single statement or empty.  The
opening `{` goes on
the end of the line, not on the next line.  Functions also put the opening
`{` after the formal arguments or new-style result type, not on the next
line.  Use `{}` for empty inline constructors and destructors in classes.

If any branch of an `if`/`else if`/`else` cascade ends with a return statement,
they all should, with the understanding that the cases are all unexceptional.
When testing for an error case that should cause an early return, do so with
an `if` that doesn't have a following `else`.

Don't waste space on the screen with needless blank lines or elaborate block
commentary (lines of dashes, boxes of asterisks, &c.).  Write code so as to be
easily read and understood with a minimum of scrolling.

Avoid using assignments in controlling expressions of `if()` &c., even with
the idiom of wrapping them with extra parentheses.
### C++ language
Use *C++17*, unless some compiler to which we must be portable lacks a feature
you are considering.
1. Never throw or catch exceptions.
1. Never use run-time type information or `dynamic_cast<>`.
1. Never declare static data that executes a constructor.
   (This is why `#include <iostream>` is contraindicated.)
Use `{braced initializers}` in all circumstances where they work, including
default data member initialization.  They inhibit implicit truncation.
Don't use `= expr` initialization just to effect implicit truncation;
prefer an explicit `static_cast<>`.
With C++17, braced initializers work fine with `auto` too.
1. Avoid unsigned types apart from `size_t`, which must be used with care.
When `int` just obviously works, just use `int`.  When you need something
bigger than `int`, use `std::int64_t` rather than `long` or `long long`.
1. Use namespaces to avoid conflicts with client code.  Use one top-level
project namespace.  Don't introduce needless nested namespaces within a
project when names don't conflict or better solutions exist.  Never use
`using namespace ...;`, especially not `using namespace std;`.  Access
STL entities with names like `std::unique_ptr<>`, without a leading `::`.
1. Prefer static functions to functions in anonymous namespaces in source files.
1. Use `auto` judiciously.  When the type of a local variable is known,
monomorphic, and easy to type, be explicit rather than using `auto`.
1. Use move semantics and smart pointers to make dynamic memory ownership
clear.  Consider reworking any code that uses `malloc()` or a (non-placement)
`operator new`.
1. Use references for `const` arguments; prefer `const` references to values for
all but small types that are trivially copyable (e.g., use `const std::string &`
and `int`).  Use non-`const` pointers for output arguments.  Put output arguments
last (_pace_ the standard C library conventions for `memcpy()` & al.).
1. Prefer `typename` to `class` in template argument declarations.
1. Prefer `enum class` to plain `enum` wherever `enum class` will work.
1. Use `constexpr` and `const` generously.
1. When a `switch()` statement's labels do not cover all possible case values
explicitly, it should contains either a `default:;` at its end or a
`default:` label that obviously crashes.
#### Classes
1. Define POD structures with `struct`.
1. Don't use `this->` in (non-static) member functions.
1. Define accessor and mutator member functions (implicitly) inline in the
class, after constructors and assignments.  Don't needlessly define
(implicit) inline member functions in classes unless they really solve a
performance problem.
1. Try to make class definitions in headers concise specifications of
interfaces, at least to the extent that C++ allows.
1. When copy constructors and copy assignment are not necessary,
and move constructors/assignment is present, don't declare them and they
will be implicitly deleted.  When neither copy nor move constructors
or assignments should exist for a class, explicitly `=delete` all of them.
1. Make single-argument constructors (other than copy and move constructors)
explicit unless you really want to define an implicit conversion.
#### Overall design preferences
Don't use dynamic solutions to solve problems that can be solved at
build time; don't solve build time problems by writing programs that
produce source code when macros and templates suffice; don't write macros
when templates suffice.  Templates are statically typed, checked by the
compiler, and are (or should be) visible to debuggers.

Commit message:

Use std::nullopt in place of empty braces in return statements.

documentation/C++style.md, after:

<!--
Copyright (c) 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION.  All rights reserved.
-->

## In brief:
* Use *clang-format* on all C++ source and header files before
  every merge to master.  All code layout should be determined
  by means of clang-format.
* Where LLVM's C++ style guide is clear on usage, follow it.
* Otherwise, where a clear precedent exists in the project, follow it.
* Otherwise, where a good public C++ style guide is relevant and clear,
  follow it.  [Google's](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html)
  is pretty good and comes with lots of justifications for its rules.
## In particular:
### Files
1. File names should use dashes, not underscores.  C++ sources have the
extension ".cc", not ".C" or ".cpp" or ".cxx".  Don't create needless
source directory hierarchies.
1. Header files should be idempotent.  Use the usual technique:
```
#ifndef FORTRAN_header_H_
#define FORTRAN_header_H_
// code
#endif  // FORTRAN_header_H_
```
1. `#include` every header defining an entity that your project header or source
file actually uses directly.  (Exception: when foo.cc starts, as it should,
with `#include "foo.h"`, and foo.h includes bar.h in order to define the
interface to the module foo, you don't have to redundantly `#include "bar.h"`
in foo.cc.)
1. In the source file "foo.cc", put its corresponding `#include "foo.h"`
first in the sequence of inclusions.
Then `#include` other project headers in alphabetic order; then C++ standard
headers, also alphabetically; then C and system headers.
1. Don't use `#include <iostream>`.  If you need it for temporary debugging,
remove the inclusion before committing.
### Naming
1. C++ names that correspond to STL names should look like those STL names
(e.g., `clear()` and `size()` member functions in a class that implements
a container).
1. Non-public data members should be named with leading miniscule (lower-case)
letters, internal camelCase capitalization, and a trailing underscore,
e.g. `DoubleEntryBookkeepingSystem myLedger_;`.  POD structures with
only public data members shouldn't use trailing underscores, since they
don't have class functions in which data members need to be distinguishable.
1. Accessor member functions are named with the non-public data member's name,
less the trailing underscore.  Mutator member functions are named `set_...`
and should return `*this`.  Don't define accessors or mutators needlessly.
1. Other class functions should be named with leading capital letters,
CamelCase, and no underscores, and, like all functions, should be based
on imperative verbs, e.g. `HaltAndCatchFire()`.
1. It is fine to use short names for local variables with limited scopes,
especially when you can declare them directly in a `for()`/`while()`/`if()`
condition.  Otherwise, prefer complete English words to abbreviations
when creating names.
### Commentary
1. Use `//` for all comments except for short `/*notes*/` within expressions.
1. When `//` follows code on a line, precede it with two spaces.
1. Comments should matter.  Assume that the reader knows current C++ at least as
well as you do and avoid distracting her by calling out usage of new
features in comments.
### Layout
Always run `clang-format` before committing code.  Other developers should
be able to run `git pull`, then `clang-format`, and see only their own
changes.

Here's what you can expect to see `clang-format` do:
1. Indent with two spaces.
1. Don't indent public:, protected:, and private:
accessibility labels.
1. Never use more than 80 characters per source line.
1. Don't use tabs.
1. Don't indent the bodies of namespaces, even when nested.
1. Function result types go on the same line as the function and argument
names.

Don't try to make columns of variable names or comments
align vertically -- they are maintenance problems.

Always wrap the bodies of `if()`, `else`, `while()`, `for()`, `do`, &c.
with braces, even when the body is a single statement or empty.  The
opening `{` goes on
the end of the line, not on the next line.  Functions also put the opening
`{` after the formal arguments or new-style result type, not on the next
line.  Use `{}` for empty inline constructors and destructors in classes.

If any branch of an `if`/`else if`/`else` cascade ends with a return statement,
they all should, with the understanding that the cases are all unexceptional.
When testing for an error case that should cause an early return, do so with
an `if` that doesn't have a following `else`.

Don't waste space on the screen with needless blank lines or elaborate block
commentary (lines of dashes, boxes of asterisks, &c.).  Write code so as to be
easily read and understood with a minimum of scrolling.

Avoid using assignments in controlling expressions of `if()` &c., even with
the idiom of wrapping them with extra parentheses.
### C++ language
Use *C++17*, unless some compiler to which we must be portable lacks a feature
you are considering.
1. Never throw or catch exceptions.
1. Never use run-time type information or `dynamic_cast<>`.
1. Never declare static data that executes a constructor.
   (This is why `#include <iostream>` is contraindicated.)
1. Use `{braced initializers}` in all circumstances where they work, including
default data member initialization.  They inhibit implicit truncation.
Don't use `= expr` initialization just to effect implicit truncation;
prefer an explicit `static_cast<>`.
With C++17, braced initializers work fine with `auto` too.
Sometimes, however, there are better alternatives to empty braces;
e.g., prefer `return std::nullopt;` to `return {};` to make it more clear
that the function's result type is a `std::optional<>`.
1. Avoid unsigned types apart from `size_t`, which must be used with care.
When `int` just obviously works, just use `int`.  When you need something
bigger than `int`, use `std::int64_t` rather than `long` or `long long`.
1. Use namespaces to avoid conflicts with client code.  Use one top-level
project namespace.  Don't introduce needless nested namespaces within a
project when names don't conflict or better solutions exist.  Never use
`using namespace ...;`, especially not `using namespace std;`.  Access
STL entities with names like `std::unique_ptr<>`, without a leading `::`.
1. Prefer static functions to functions in anonymous namespaces in source files.
1. Use `auto` judiciously.  When the type of a local variable is known,
monomorphic, and easy to type, be explicit rather than using `auto`.
1. Use move semantics and smart pointers to make dynamic memory ownership
clear.  Consider reworking any code that uses `malloc()` or a (non-placement)
`operator new`.
1. Use references for `const` arguments; prefer `const` references to values for
all but small types that are trivially copyable (e.g., use `const std::string &`
and `int`).  Use non-`const` pointers for output arguments.  Put output arguments
last (_pace_ the standard C library conventions for `memcpy()` & al.).
1. Prefer `typename` to `class` in template argument declarations.
1. Prefer `enum class` to plain `enum` wherever `enum class` will work.
1. Use `constexpr` and `const` generously.
1. When a `switch()` statement's labels do not cover all possible case values
explicitly, it should contains either a `default:;` at its end or a
`default:` label that obviously crashes.
#### Classes
1. Define POD structures with `struct`.
1. Don't use `this->` in (non-static) member functions, unless forced to
do so in a template.
1. Define accessor and mutator member functions (implicitly) inline in the
class, after constructors and assignments.  Don't needlessly define
(implicit) inline member functions in classes unless they really solve a
performance problem.
1. Try to make class definitions in headers concise specifications of
interfaces, at least to the extent that C++ allows.
1. When copy constructors and copy assignment are not necessary,
and move constructors/assignment is present, don't declare them and they
will be implicitly deleted.  When neither copy nor move constructors
or assignments should exist for a class, explicitly `=delete` all of them.
1. Make single-argument constructors (other than copy and move constructors)
explicit unless you really want to define an implicit conversion.
#### Overall design preferences
Don't use dynamic solutions to solve problems that can be solved at
build time; don't solve build time problems by writing programs that
produce source code when macros and templates suffice; don't write macros
when templates suffice.  Templates are statically typed, checked by the
compiler, and are (or should be) visible to debuggers.
